---
description: "Introduction to `nuxt-auth` and its features as an authentication module for your Vue / Nuxt 3 application."
---

# Introduction

::alert{type="info"}
[Checkout the `0.6`-docs](/nuxt-auth/v0.6/getting-started) if you want to get get started with the `local`-provider or have a static Nuxt application.
::

`nuxt-auth` is an open source Nuxt module that provides authentication for non-static Nuxt 3 applications.

The easiest way to get started with `nuxt-auth` is using [the sidebase Merino stack](/sidebase):
::code-group
```bash [npm]
npm create sidebase@latest
```
```bash [pnpm]
pnpm create sidebase@latest
```
```bash [yarn]
# Note: Due to a known problem with `yarn`, it is not possible to force yarn to always use `@latest`: https://github.com/yarnpkg/yarn/issues/6587
yarn create sidebase
```
::
This will create a Nuxt 3 project with `nuxt-auth` already setup & working.

`nuxt-auth` supports three main types of authentication out of the box:
::list{type="success"}
- OAuth: Authentication via third-party OAuth providers like Google, Azure, Github, Discord, ...
- Credentials: Authentication via a username and password that the user supplies and custom logic that you implement yourself
- Emails: Authentication via "Magic URL" emails, like Slack or Notion
::

`nuxt-auth` is able to provide the above and more (like database adapters, callback hooks, ...) by wrapping [NextAuth.js](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth) under the hood. This gives the reliability & convenience of a >12.000 github star library to the Nuxt 3 ecosystem with a native nuxt developer experience (DX). Wrapping `NextAuth.js` has the second advantage that many OAuth providers, database adapters, callbacks and more are supported out-of-the-box. This means that whenever you want to achieve something within the `NuxtAuthHandler` you can use all NextAuth guides and documentation to do so - the authentication handlers behave identical.

`nuxt-auth` also provides Nuxt 3 specific features like a convenient application-side composable to login, logout, access user-authentication data or an authentication middleware and plugin that take care of managing the user authentication lifecycle by fetching authentication data on initial load, refreshing the user authentication on re-focusing the tab and more.

::callout
#summary
Show me the code!

#content
Visit the [quick start](/nuxt-auth/getting-started/quick-start) page to see code examples.

Checkout the example `nuxt-auth` app: https://nuxt-auth-example.sidebase.io/

Here's the source-code https://github.com/sidebase/nuxt-auth-example of the example app.
::

##  Authentication providers

::list{type="success"}
- OAuth (e.g., Github, Google, Twitter, Azure, ...)
- Custom OAuth (write it yourself)
- Credentials (password + username)
- Email Magic URLs
::

## Application Side Session Management
::alert{type="info"}
Prior to v0.5.0 `useAuth()` was called `useSession()`.
::
::list{type="success"}
- composable `const { signIn, signOut, status, data, lastRefreshedAt, ... } = useAuth()`
- Auto-refresh the session periodically
- Auto-refresh the session on tab-refocus
- Efficient session fetching: One time on page load, afterwards for specific actions (e.g., on navigation)
- Full typescript support for all methods and properties
::

## Application Protection

::list{type="success"}
- Application-side middleware protection either for the full application or specific pages
- Server-side middleware and endpoint protection
::

## REST API

::list{type="success"}
- `GET /signin`,
- `POST /signin/:provider`,
- `GET/POST /callback/:provider`,
- `GET /signout`,
- `POST /signout`,
- `GET /session`,
- `GET /csrf`,
- `GET /providers`
::
