---
description: "A list of errors that `nuxt-auth` throws, what they mean and how you can resolve them."
---
# Errors and Warnings

This is a list of errors & warnings that `nuxt-auth` throws, what each of them means and how you can resolve them.

## AUTH_NO_SECRET

`AUTH_NO_SECRET` will appear as a warning message during development and be thrown as an error that stops the application during production. It is safe to ignore the development warning - it is only meant as a heads-up for your later production-deployment. `AUTH_NO_SECRET` occurs when no `secret` was set inside the `NuxtAuthHandler`:
```ts
// file: ~/server/api/auth/[...].ts
import { NuxtAuthHandler } from '#auth'

export default NuxtAuthHandler({
  secret: 'my-superb-secret'  // <--- !!!! THIS IS WHAT'S MISSING

  // ... rest of your config
})
```

The `secret` is important to encode the cookies / tokens of your app-users. It is mandatory for production and should be something random, long and secret that only you and priviledged personnal knows about. In development it can be omitted and will be replaced with a fake-value. To be clear: This fake value is insecure and should never be used in production.

Read [the `NuxtAuthHandler` docs for more information and different options you can use to set the `secret` at runtime](/nuxt-auth/v0.6/configuration/nuxt-auth-handler).

## AUTH_NO_ORIGIN

`AUTH_NO_ORIGIN` will appear as a warning message during development and be thrown as an error that stops the application during production. It is safe to ignore the development warning - it is only meant as a heads-up for your later production-deployment. `AUTH_NO_ORIGIN` occurs when the origin of your application was not set. `nuxt-auth` tries to find the origin of your application in the following order:
1. Use the `AUTH_ORIGIN` environment variable if it is set,
2. Development only: Determine the origin automatically from the incoming HTTP request

The `origin` is important for callbacks that happen to a specific origin for `oauth` flows. Note that in order for (2) to work the `origin` already has to be set at build-time, i.e., when you run `npm run build` or `npm run generate` and it will lead to the `origin` being inside your app-bundle.

