# Custom sign-in Page

## Provider: `authjs`

To create a custom sign-in page you will need to:
1. Create the custom sign-in page: Creating the actual page your user will enter their credentials on OR select their oauth provider (e.g., google, azure, ...)
2. Configure the `authjs`-backend-auth-handler to redirect to the custom sign-in page: If a sign-in is triggered or a session check fails, the `authjs`-backend-auth-handler has to forward you to your custom sign-in page, instead of the the `authjs`-backend-auth-handler builtin sign-in page
3. Optional: Disable the `nuxt-auth` global protection middleware for the custom page if you have it enabled

### Create the Custom sign-in Page

To create your custom sign-in page you can use `signIn` to directly start a provider-flow once the user selected it, e.g., by clicking on a button on your custom sign-in page. Here is a very simple sign-in page that either directly starts a github-oauth sign-in flow or directly signs in the user via the credentials flow:
```vue
<!-- file: ~/pages/login.vue -->
<template>
  <div>
    <p>Sign-In Options:</p>
    <button @click="signIn('github')">Github</button>
    <!-- NOTE: Here we hard-coded username and password, on your own page this should probably be connected to two inputs for username + password -->
    <button @click="signIn('credentials', { username: 'test', password: 'hunter2' })">Username and Password</button>
  </div>
</template>

<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
    auth: {
        unauthenticatedOnly: true,
        navigateAuthenticatedTo: '/',
    }
})

const { signIn } = useAuth()
</script>
```

Note:
- In the above example `username` and `password` are hard-coded. In your own custom page, these two fields should probably come from inputs on your page.
- We disable the global `nuxt-auth` middleware for this page by using the [guest mode](/nuxt-auth/v0.6/application-side/guest-mode) `definePageMeta({ auth: { unauthenticatedOnly: true, ... } })`, this is only necessary if you have set `globalAppMiddleware: true` in [the `nuxt-auth` module configuration](/nuxt-auth/v0.6/configuration/nuxt-config)

If you want to create a custom sign-in page that dynamically offers sign-in options based on your configured providers, you can call `getProviders()` first and then iterate over the supported providers to generate your sign-in page.

::alert{type="info"}
Above we use the [guest mode](/nuxt-auth/v0.6/application-side/guest-mode). This option was introduced in `nuxt-auth@0.5.0`. If you are on a previous version, use `auth: false` instead. This has the downside of not automatically redirecting authenticated users away from the login page.
::

### Configure `authjs` to redirect to the Custom sign-in Page

Redirects to the sign-in page happen automatically, e.g., when a `getSession()` call fails to get a session or when `signIn()` is called. By default this redirect sends the user to `/api/auth/signin`. To use a custom sign-in page we will have to configure `authjs` to send the user to the custom sign-in page instead.

We can apply this configuration in the `NuxtAuthHandler`:
```ts
// file: ~/server/api/auth/[...].ts
import { NuxtAuthHandler } from '#auth'

export default NuxtAuthHandler({
  pages: {
    // Change the default behavior to use `/login` as the path for the sign-in page
    signIn: '/login'
  },
  providers: [
    // ... your provider configuration
  ]
})
```

We can also configure the default-location for other pages in the `pages` configuration, see [the NextAuth.js pages docs for more](https://next-auth.js.org/configuration/pages).

### Disable the global page protection middleware

As already outlined in the first step, you will need to add:
```ts
definePageMeta({
    auth: {
        unauthenticatedOnly: true,
        navigateAuthenticatedTo: '/',
    }
})
```
to your login page if you have enabled the [global page protection middleware](/nuxt-auth/v0.6/application-side/protecting-pages). This is the [guest mode](/nuxt-auth/v0.6/application-side/guest-mode) and allows unauthenticated users to access the login-page, while authenticated users will be redirected to `/`. Not disabling the global middleware would result in an endless loop of redirects. You can change `navigateAuthenticatedTo` to any route you like, e.g., `/profile` to show authenticated users their profile instead.

If you have not set `globalAppMiddleware` or have set it to `false` this step does not apply to your application.

::alert{type="info"}
Above we use the [guest mode](/nuxt-auth/v0.6/application-side/guest-mode). This option was introduced in `nuxt-auth@0.5.0`. If you are on a previous version, use `auth: false` instead. This has the downside of not automatically redirecting authenticated users away from the login page.
::

### Optional: Custom Error handling

You can handle sign-in errors yourself by calling `signIn` with `redirect: false` and inspecting its result for errors. For example:
```ts
const { signIn } = useAuth()

const mySignInHandler = async ({ username, password }: { username: string, password: string }) => {
  const { error, url } = await signIn('credentials', { username, password, redirect: false })

  if (error) {
    // Do your custom error handling here
    alert('You have made a terrible mistake while entering your credentials')
  } else {
    // No error, continue with the sign in, e.g., by following the returned redirect:
    return navigateTo(url, { external: true })
  }
}
```

Then call the `mySignInHandler({ username, password })` on login instead of the default `signIn(...)` method. You can find [all possible errors here](https://github.com/nextauthjs/next-auth/blob/aad0b8db0e8a163b3c3ae7dec3e9158e20d368f4/packages/next-auth/src/core/pages/signin.tsx#L4-L19). This file also contains the default error-messages that `nuxt-auth` would show to the user if you would not handle the error manually using `redirect: false`.

## Provider: `local or refresh`

The only way to use the local and refresh provider does not come with a pre-made login page, so you will have to build one yourself. To do so:
1. Create the page, e.g., `pages/login.vue`
2. Call the `signIn` method with the username and password your user has to enter on this page
3. Disable the page protection, if you have the global middleware enabled
4. Configure `nuxt-auth` to know the place of your login page

A full example login page could look like this:
```vue
<!-- file: ~/pages/my-cool-login.vue -->
<template>
  <div>
    <p>Sign-In:</p>
    <!-- NOTE: Here we hard-coded username and password, on your own page this should probably be connected to two inputs for username + password -->
    <button @click="signIn('credentials', { username: 'test', password: 'hunter2' })">Username and Password</button>
  </div>
</template>

<script setup lang="ts">
definePageMeta({
    auth: {
        unauthenticatedOnly: true,
        navigateAuthenticatedTo: '/',
    }
})

const { signIn } = useAuth()
</script>
```

Then the full `nuxt.config.ts` for this would look like this:
```ts
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ['@sidebase/nuxt-auth'],
  auth: {
    provider: {
      type: 'local',
      pages: {
        login: '/my-cool-login'
      },
    },
    globalAppMiddleware: {
      isEnabled: true
    }
  }
})
```

Note:
- if your global app middleware is disabled, you have to add `auth: true` to the `definePageMeta`-code above to correctly enable the guest-mode
- the default location set for the `login` page is `/login`
